<h1>Chatter Box App</h1> 

<p>Built for mobile devices using React Native. The app will provide users with a chat interface and options to share images and their location.<p>
<h2>Project Features<h2>
<p>
<ul>
<li>A page where users can enter their name and choose a background color for the chat screen before joining the chat.</li>
<li>A page displaying the conversation, as well as an input field and submit button.</li>
<li>The chat provides users with two additional communication features: sending images and location data.</li>
<li>Data gets stored online and offline.</li>
</ul>
</p>
<h2>Dependencies<h2>
<p>
<ul>
<li>React Native</li>
<li>Expo & Expo Go App</li>
<li>Gifted Chat (React Native Library)</li>
<li>Google Firestore</li>
<li>AsyncStorage (React Native/Expo)</li>
</ul>
</p>
<h2>How to:</h2>
<h3>Installation</h3>
<p>
<ol>
<li>Clone repository: Download zip or git clone https://github.com/sdncoss/Chatter-Box.git</li>
<li>Node Dependencies:</li>
Check if you already have Node.js, nvm, and npm installed.<br>
- npm -v <br>
- nvm -v<br>
if not, please install<br>
- npm intall<br>
<li>Google Firestore/Firebase Dependencies:</li>
- Create an account (https://firebase.google.com/)<br>
- Start a new projectM<br>
- Set up database under build --> Firestore Database (under rules tabe change: allow read, write: if true;)<br>
- Activate Storage under build --> Storage (under rules tabe change: allow read, write: if true;)<br>
- Start the Expo development server: npx expo start Usage
</ol>
</p>
<h3>Usage</h3>
<p>Run on Emulator<br>
- Ensure you have an Android or iOS emulator running<br>
- Press a (for Android) or i (for iOS) in the Expo CLI to start the app on the emulator.<br>
Running on a Physical Device<br>
- Install the Expo Go app from the App Store or Google Play.<br>
- Scan the QR code generated by npx expo start to run the app on your device.


